 GOVERNANCE
https://upscpdf.com/
LEC 1
This term governance is a recent concept in the literature of administration. This word was introduced to provide a broader horizon to the concept of administration.
The nature and role of administration has changed drastically in the administrative process, private sector and NGOs have started contributing significantly. In some cases, the role of the government has come down and the private sector on market is playing a dominant role.
In the background, expectations put a question, "can we exclude private institutions from the purview of public administration?" Hence, the concept of governance was introduced to answer this significant question. YA IAS
https://upscpdf.com/
GS FOUNDATION | www.sunyaias.com | 8279688595
upscpdf.com

https://upscpdf.com/
Governance is a more encompassing phenomenon than government. Government is an institution and governance is a process - a process of bringing social change. Therefore, whoever participants in the process of bringing social change is performing the task of governance.
From this point of view, civil society organizations, NGOs, pressure groups, interest groups, self-help groups, private sector institutions, community organisations, etc. also come within the purview of governance.
We have many examples to prove that the above-mentioned institutions are playing a significant role in the process of bringing Social change. Some of these examples are:
1. Reliance, Airtel, Vi, etc. playing a significant role for increasing connectivity, therefore, socio-economic transformation.
2. MKSSA (Majdwe Kisan Shakti Sangathan) actively participated in the RTI movement. This movement compelled the passage of the RTI law which changed the dynamics of citizen administration relationship.
3. Child Relief and Youth (CRY) - other NGOs concerning rise of child have been highly successful in achieving the mandate of the constitution and other laws on child rights.
Minimum government and Maximum governance
The present union government has proposed a reformist slogan: Minimum government, maximum governance. This slogan carries two interrelated significant objectives inherent in the slogan itself. These are:
a) There should be minimum role of government and minimum presence if the government. It means rules and regulations will be reduced, minimum documentation will be required for service delivery, minimum complexity in the process will be there, bureaucracies will have least interference. Generally, government was identified through bureaucratic characteristics (red tapeism, nepotism, and corruption). The minimum government thus means reduced bureaucratic attitude.
b) Maximum governance carries a very deep meaning, it provides for increased role of non-government institutions, community organizations, and individual citizens. Government through this point tries to emphasize people's participation in the governing process. The focus of administration should shift from the rules to the goal. Hence, the slogan also means that administration will uplift as an outcome-driven institution.
Good Governance
Good governance
 "Revenance" should be corrected to "Revenue". The rest of the text appears correct with no spelling mistakes caused by OCR.

The corrected text is:

Revenue is the concept of intensifying democracy. In fact, the term good and in good governance tries to bridge the gap between theory and practice of governance of democracy. Governance in democracy has the objective relating to of the people, for the people and by the people. Of the people symbolizes SUN, JAS (<https://upscpdf.com/>).

GS FOUNDATION | www.sunyaias.com | 8279688595
upscpdf.com

...

Governance
<https://upscpdf.com/>
Lec 2
Structure
Structure of Government Organization
These are the branches of government - executive, legislative and judiciary. Out of these, the executive branch is considered as administration. Generally, administration is related to implementation or execution of laws and policies. The executive branch is headed by the minister at the apex level. Hence, a minister is also known as a political executive. All civil Servants work under the overall leadership of a minister and are called permanent executives.

According to the constitution and as per principles of democracy, ministers have been given final authority of decision in their respective departments because it is the minister who is ultimately answerable to people through legislature (parliament). The administration of the nation is designed through portfolios classified as ministers like the home ministry, finance ministry, ministry of defense, ministry of agriculture etc. Each ministry can be divided into or grouped as departments.
 The ministries with more diversified functions will have more departments like finance ministry, home ministry, ministry of personnel, etc. whereas the ministry with limited scope of functions can have only one department like ministry of skill development, ministry of textiles, etc. Ministries with more departments can have more than one minister. In this case, departments are specifically allotted to two or more ministers.

According to rules of procedure of the Government of India, ministries can be classified into:
a.) Cabinet ministers
b.) Minister of State
c) Deputy ministers
Cabinet ministers sit in the meeting of Cabinet. He heads an important ministry of the government. He participates in national level policy making and he's superior to other ministers of state of his ministry.
Minister of state is of two types:
a) MOS independent charge (MOS-IC)
b.) MOS, under cabinet minister
MOS-IC leads the ministry which does not find its place in the cabinet. But MOS-IC can attend cabinet meetings when invited. However, MOS under cabinet ministers never participates in cabinet meetings.
The trend of appointing deputy ministers has become a thing of the past because the constitution restricts the number of council of ministers. The constitution does not mention the turn cabinet (except for the purpose of emergency). Council of ministers is a constitutional word and article 75(3) provides that COM shall be collectively responsible to Lok Sabha. This means the collective decision should be taken by COM. However, the number of COM which is generally 75-80, is not fit for quality discussion, deliberation, decision making or coordination. Therefore, in India we have evolved the Concept of cabinet which is generally a smaller body capable of making policies.
Ministries are divided into departments for the purpose of convenient transaction of their business. The administrative body of a department can be grouped into secretariat and directorate. The secretariat is the office of the Secretary. The secretary is also the administrative head of a department. He's generally an IAS officer. He manages the particular department under the overall leadership of the concerned minister. Secretary is not a personal servant to anyone. He's the secretary to Government of India. He has the right to give advice and has equally responsibility to be fair and objective in his opinion to the minister. Minister is not bound by his opinion. Therefore, it's the minister who takes decisions effectively.
Secretariat
Directorate / Commissionerate
Secretary (IA)
Commissioner Director
Director
Addi. Sec.
Addi Commin
Joint Sec.
Joint Comm
> Deputy sec.
Deputy Com-
SUNYA IAS
> under sec
Ass. Court
> 5.O
-> Assistant
Superintendent
UDC/LDC
inspector
> Peon
 "tariat is the office of the secretary.
The secretary is also the administrative head
of a department. He's generally an IAS officer.
He manages the particular department under
the overall leadership of the concerned minister.
Secretary is not a personal servant to anyone.
He's the secretary to the Government of India. He has
the right to give advice & has equally
responsibility to be fair & objective in his
opinion to the minister. Minister is not bound
by his opinion. Therefore, it's the minister who takes a decision

SUNYA IAS
https://upscpdf.com/
GS FOUNDATION | www.sunyaias.com | 8279688595
upscpdf.com


https://upscpdf.com/
Contrary to the opinion of the secretary, their
ultimate responsibility lies with the minister. Secretariat organization at
union and state level are similar except for a few differences. These are -
a.) At the state level, there is a single
secretariat for all the departments
which is ultimately headed by a chief
secretary.
b.) However, at the union level secretariat of various ministries do not converge
to form a single headed organization.
b.) At the state level, the secretariat
is concerned with policy making tasks. Policy execution function is strictly
performed by directorates in which secretariat organizations and so many
directorates are there outside the secretariat but controlled by secretarial
in matters of execution. Pureforce, at union level, secretariat perform both
policy and execution functions.
c) At the union level, secretariat of different
ministries exists separately but are called central secretariat of different. Along
with this central secretariat there are two other secretarial organizations found:
called cabinet secretariat and PMO (Prime Minister's office).
a. The cabinet secretariat is headed by a cabinet secretary. He is the highest ranked civil servant of the country. Cabinet secretariat provides secretarial assistance to the cabinet. RAW is controlled by the cabinet secretariat.
b. PMO is a specific special office to provide secretarial assistance to PM. It is headed by the Principal Secretary to Prime Minister (PS to PM).
SUNYA IAS
C. PMO is a very powerful office. It Controles CBI.
https://upscpdf.com/
GS FOUNDATION | www.sunyaias.com | 8279688595
upscpdf.com


https://upscpdf.com/
d. The strength of PMO determines the strength of PM.
e. From this point of view administrative powers at the union level are decentralized and rest in cabinet secretary (cabsec), PS to PM, principal to advisor to PM (recently created) and relevant secretaries of the department along with a unique position called National security advisor (NSA).
However, at the state level all administrative power is concentrated in one office or position named as chief secretary. Chief secretary is a chief advisor to state cabinet, chief advisor to chief minister, head of all secretaries at the state level and chief coordinating link between union and state. In this lens, this post is not found at the union level."
 1. and ultimately prepare the draft of the policy to be presented before the Minister.
2. The secretariat helps in preparing and executing the budget. The finance ministry demands from every department the concerned budget for the financial year. Secretariats engage people at various levels to prepare and consolidate the department's budget.
3. The secretariat monitors the functioning of directorates (at the union level). They oversee the implementation of a specific policy programme or project.
4. Secretariat also undertakes functions of personal administration like promotion, transfer, posting, and other service conditions.
5. Directorates are concerned with the execution of government decisions. They prepare strategies for executing schemes or projects, participate in field work related to that function, and serve as a link between citizens and administration at respective levels. They are significant units for appraisal of government functions.